.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Adam Starak <starak.adam@gmail.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 18, 2016
.Dt DNV 9
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dnvlist_get,
.Nm dnvlist_take,
.Nd "API for getting name/value pairs, which doesn't raise an error if pair doesn't exists"
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libnv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/dnv.h
.Ft bool
.Fn dnvlist_get_bool "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "bool defval"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn dnvlist_get_number "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "uint64_t defval"
.Ft char *
.Fn dnvlist_get_string "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "const char *defval"
.Ft nvlist_t *
.Fn dnvlist_get_nvlist "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "nvlist_t *defval"
.Ft int
.Fn dnvlist_get_descriptor "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "int defval"
.Ft void *
.Fn dnvlist_get_binary "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "size_t *sizep" "void *defval" "size_t defsize"
.Ft bool
.Fn dnvlist_take_bool "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "bool defval"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn dnvlist_take_number "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "uint64_t defval"
.Ft char *
.Fn dnvlist_take_string "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "const char *defval"
.Ft nvlist_t *
.Fn dnvlist_take_nvlist "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "nvlist_t *defval"
.Ft int
.Fn dnvlist_take_descriptor "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "int defval"
.Ft void *
.Fn dnvlist_take_binary "const nvlist_t *nvl" "const char *name" "size_t *sizep" "void *defval" "size_t defsize"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm libnv
librcary allows to easily manage name value pairs as well as send and receive
them over sockets. For detailed information check
.Xr nv 9 .
.Pp
The
.Nm dnvlist_get
family functions allow to obtain value of the given name. What differ them from
nvlist_get functions is the fact, that the program won't be aborted if the element
of given name doesn't exist. The function will return value provided in defval.
In case of string, nvlist, descriptor, binary or any array, returned resource should
not be modified - it still belongs to the nvlist.
The nvlist must not be in error state.
.Pp
The
.Nm dnvlist_take
family functions return value associated with the given name and remove the element
from the nvlist. If the element of given name doesn't exist, the function will
return default value and leave untouched.
In case of string, binary or any array values, the caller is responsible for freeing
returned memory using the
.Xr free 3
function.
In case of nvlist, the caller is responsible for destroying returned nvlist
using the
.Fn cnvlist_destroy
function.
In case of descriptor, the caller is responsible for closing returned descriptor
using the
.Fn close 2
system call.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nv 9 ,
.Xr close 2 ,
.Xr free 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm dnv
API was implemented by
.An Pawel Jakub Dawidek Aq Mt pawel@dawidek.net
under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.
